I'd like to introduce you to my mom I'm
guessing that's not what you expected
and it's not what I expected either and
thank goodness I realized that an Asian
man was not my mom before I hugged him
because that would have been so awkward
recognizing people isn't one of my
strengths due to a genetic visual
impairment that has no correction or
cure as a result I am legally blind
though I prefer partially sighted
because it's more optimistic and I'm
entitled to the label disabled I hate
the word disabled when it's used to
describe people it detonates a mindset
of less than that utterly disregards
capacity ability potential instead
prioritizing brokenness and lack the
perspective can be overt what can't he
do for himself and I'm going to have to
do for him she'll probably need some
accommodation that no other employee at
this business needs sometimes the hidden
bias is so sweetly conveyed Wow
Susan look at everything you've done in
your career and your life how do you do
all of that and be visually impaired I
fail at being disabled so in the spirit
of incentivizing the rampant failure of
people all over the world and enticing
the so-called normal to just give it a
rest already here are five tips
to fail at being disabled tip 1 know
your superpowers the best team I ever
led in my career was based on
superpowers and we even gave ourselves
fancy pantsy titles like the pillar of
Master Li acumen the biskits butterer
the voice of reason because we relied on
our strengths our best strengths we
achieved tremendous outcomes the trace
that prevents me from recognizing my mom
allows me to smoothly adapt to quickly
absorb and accurately process an
exhausting volume of cues tease out
what's important determine multiple
processes or potentials for any
situation that I'm in and then selecting
the one that makes the most sense all in
a matter of seconds I see what other
people do not some people think that's a
superpower but my real super powers are
ricocheting off of glass walls I'm
letting my friends walk around with kale
in their teeth to don't have lunch with
me or dinner to be supremely skilled
supremely skilled at getting it wrong it
is important to be as equally confident
in your superpowers as you are in your
foo bars
that's effed up beyond all recognition
for you Millennials here's a good
example it is not a great idea to say
don't worry everything in here is too
small for me to see when you
accidentally walk into the men's room
I had one of the world's largest
sporting arenas or anywhere I really
wish that one wasn't true I'm serious it
is better to just walk out and let them
think you're drunk tip three know that
everyone is disabled in some way like
when you have a cold and you can't smell
and you realize that the milk that you
splashed in your coffee was sour
only after you tasted it very recently a
woman walked up to me frantic she could
not find the bakery she was looking for
as I motioned in the direction I thought
she should go saying there are no stores
on this side of the street so your best
bet is to cross oh my goodness she
interrupted there it is all I needed was
another set of eyes I just let her have
it and you know I I would have said that
knew being logical and paying attention
and staying calm would have done the
trick
but Who am I tip for point out the
disability in others this one is best
reserved very important notes this one
is best reserved for people you know
well because random strangers typically
don't appreciate teachable moments a few
years ago my parents and I went to see
the Rockettes Radio City is high-kicking
dancers I leaned over to my dad the two
rockets on the left aren't gigging in a
straight line yes they are no they're
not
yes they aren't how do you know you
can't see but I know what a straight
line looks like I had snapped a picture
during our back-and-forth and presented
him the evidence that proved I was right
he looked at the picture I leaned in
further who's disabled now tip five
pursue audacious goals flip expectation
upside down and shove limitation off a
cliff to meet its demise there is a
college football linebacker who blitzes
tackles recovers fumbles while having
one hand there is a teacher who
successfully transfers knowledge and
inspires countless students while living
with Down syndrome and for me on my long
list to cycle from Katmandu Nepal to
Darjeeling India on the back seat of a
bicycle built for two it will be an
exciting 620 mile adventure and I'm sure
I will have the blurry photos to show
for it
Oh before we go on I forgot to introduce
you to my mom I need to do that and here
she is s-see would appear to me if I
were looking through a crowd of people
looking for her or is that an Asian man
thank you
[Applause]
you